# Curriculum Vitae 

# Christopher Mark Buckley M.Sc. Dunelm

6 Brunel Court\
York\
YO26 4UU\
Mobile: 07763 868 005\
E-mail: chris\@cmbuckley.co.uk

# Alternative Formats

-   [PDF](http://cmbuckley.co.uk/files/2012/04/cv.pdf)
-   [DOC](http://cmbuckley.co.uk/files/2012/04/cv.doc)

# Alma Mater

-   2006--2009: Department of Computer Science, University of Durham
-   2003--2006: College of St Hild & St Bede, University of Durham

# Current Status

## Senior Software Engineer, Everything Everywhere

I currently work for Everything Everywhere as a Senior Software Engineer
for the Customer Interactions team. The role involves analysis and
documentation of business requirements and project scope, and using
software engineering principles and agile development methodologies to
produce and maintain configurable, tactical solutions. The solutions are
primarily focussed on customer service.

## Key Responsibilities

-   Organising and leading project planning with business stakeholders
    to define project scope and to provide detailed technical analysis
    of business requirements
-   End-to-end accountability for projects from design to launch
-   Participation and leadership of agile daily stand-ups, project
    planning meetings, sprint planning meetings and sprint
    retrospectives
-   Contribution to evolution of agile delivery process
-   Active involvement with evolution of deployment and continuous
    integration tools (version control, unit testing, coding standards
    and code sniffs)
-   Design authority and development of standards for RESTful Web
    services
-   Product release and technical support documentation
-   Helping shape the business roadmap by advising on new technologies
    for more cost-efficient solutions
-   Involvement with team recruitment process (interviewing / technical
    tests)

# Core Skills

-   Agile development methodologies (Scrum, Kanban, XP)
-   Service-oriented architecture (REST & SOAP APIs)
-   Object-oriented design & architectural patterns
-   PHP5 (Zend Framework & standalone scripting)
-   Bash shell scripting (text processing using awk / sed)
-   (X)HTML & CSS standards compliance
-   Ajax, MooTools & other JavaScript development
-   Linux server management
-   MySQL database-driven applications & database management

# Qualifications

## Postgraduate Degree

Master of Science (Research) --- Faculty of Science\
Thesis: "Guessing Numbers Based on Network Routing Capacity"

## Undergraduate Degree

B.Sc. Natural Sciences (Computer Science & Mathematics)\
Upper Second-Class Honours (2:1)

# Professional Experience

## Developer, Vebra Solutions Ltd (2007--2009)

Vebra Solutions are the leading provider of property management
software. I worked as a developer of a large-scale PHP5-based Web
product. My duties included:

-   Development of PHP property management system
-   Development of a MooTools-based UI framework using Ajax
-   CSS scripting
-   Re-work of existing implementation for cross-browser compatibility
-   Production of XML schema to assist with large-scale data migration
-   Maintenance of Linux server, CVS codebase, Apache, MySQL, code
    documentation, coding standards & bug-tracking using Bugzilla

# Educational Experience

## President & Treasurer, Hild Bede Mountaineering Club (2004--2007)

In this combined role I managed most of the administrative side of the
club. As well as organising events and recruiting/instructing new
members, I looked after club finances and equipment. I was also the club
Web site editor.

# Personal Interests

-   [Computing & Web
    development](http://cmbuckley.co.uk/interests/computing/ "Computing")
-   [Rock
    climbing](http://cmbuckley.co.uk/interests/climbing/ "Climbing")
-   [Snowboarding](http://cmbuckley.co.uk/interests/snowboarding/ "Snowboarding")
-   Music (electric guitar)

# References

References are available upon request. Please contact me using the
details listed above.
